Ants

Dwarf fortress style - tell them what to do and they carry out your orders

Square grid. Vertically laid out

3 Main materials - Air, tunnel wall, dirt.
Air = 0 tunnel wall, dirt = 2 tunnel wall
Main building material is dirt,
Dig out a base below ground while building a structure above ground

Dirt gets dragged above ground automatically




Cells are dirt, tunnel wall, or air; each cell can have water or ant
maybe also stone
Ants pathfind to nearest task - if emty handed try to dig something, otherwise try to place something
if no specified building, try to place tunnel wall at nearest air block 

Water spawns in sky during rain some distance above highest structure
Falls down, probabalistcally moves left or right if on solid ground
Probability to treat dirt as air

Disapears when below simulation fog 

Flood intensity increases over time?

Simulation occurs only within bounds of any structure built/dug - sides treated as walls for water, etc

Prodedual generation of features like stone, caverns (possibly with enemies), resources?
Decide based on coords whether to generate pfeature; store partial features so can be filled in when simulation fog expands 




Technical questions:
svg vs canvas:
I ddecided on canvas, because there's a limit to how fancy animations can be done with them and because Joe seemed skeptical about extending SVG objects.

To do limited rendering properly, the map should be a quadtree. I don't think it's big enough to bother.

Do we handle collisions? Seems like a recipie for ants getting stuck. If ants can collide with ants, they would need to be able to move out of the way. Perhaps they can be pushed? Deadlock still seems possible.

Should ants push or pull?
pulling: when next to dirt, they can 'pick it up'; it then follows them around until they drop it
    does dropping it
pushing: ants can move onto a tile with dirt, and move the dirt to an adjacent empty square of their choice
   (including the one they just left)
   - This technically lets ants ignore ground, just pushing blocks behind themselves. Their AI would be designed not to work like that though, so it wouldn't appear true
     - that might avoid the collision problems, while allowing (D&D-peasant-railgun)-style superfast movement if lots of ants are near each other.
     - if an ant's planned move is through dirt, it could switch what it's dragging to drag the wall,
       leaving a build order for the old wall, and a dig order for the dirt it dropped.
       - This gets more difficult
    - An ant that wants to move through another ant could push it with some probability






Our idea might be somewhat realistic:
According to https://www.mentalfloss.com/article/66523/how-do-anthills-survive-rain

 - Water hitting the convex dirt tends to bead and run off the side.

 - When heavy rain leads to water entering the tunnel, it usually doesn’t go far. Ants tend to burrow at least a foot underground and have an intricate system of tunnels that work like storm drains. As long as the rainfall isn’t too heavy, the water will pass through the nest without pooling.

 - With some clever tunneling, ants can trap air in various chambers throughout the nest, and entrances to chambers come from below, preventing water from coming in.

I would like to find a better source
